Airflow Jobs: new page on injecting logs correlation required attrs (#37054)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/airflow_log_context.md

---
title: Inject Airflow Task Context into Logs
description: "Inject DAG and task context attributes into Airflow task logs as structured facets in Datadog."
further_reading:
  - link: '/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/airflow/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Enable Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring for Apache Airflow'
  - link: '/data_jobs'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring'
---

## Overview

> This page describes how to inject Airflow task context attributes into every log record emitted during task execution, including logs from custom Python loggers, without modifying your DAGs.

Reviewer: "DAG" is used throughout without being spelled out on first mention. Style guide requires spelling out abbreviations on first use. Consider adding "(Directed Acyclic Graph)" on first mention — though given the page's audience (Airflow practitioners), this may be a judgment call for the author.

Author: I think it's fine because this is a subpage of the main DO Airflow setup page so readers should already know that concept.
I noticed we don't spell out DAG on the main Airflow page and just start with: 

<img width="1514" height="350" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56be7f3e-e0a3-4f11-abc8-08f1135a0f9f" />

> After setup, the following attributes appear as structured facets in Datadog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the steps on this page, the following attributes appear as structured facets in Datadog:
```

| Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
| `@airflow.dagRun.dag_id` | DAG identifier |
| `@airflow.dagRun.run_id` | DAG run identifier |
| `@airflow.task.task_id` | Task identifier |
| `@airflow.task.attempt_id` | Attempt number (1-indexed, incremented on retry) |

Datadog automatically flattens nested JSON into dot-notation facets. No log pipeline configuration is required.

The injection mechanism differs between Airflow versions. Choose the tab that matches your deployment.

## Implementation

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Airflow 2.x" %}}

Airflow 2.x calls `set_context(ti)` in the same worker process before each task runs. The implementation captures that context with a `ContextVar` and injects it into every log record through a process-wide log record factory.

### Step 1: Verify your current logging configuration

> Run the following before proceeding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command:
```

```shell
airflow config get-value logging logging_config_class
```

- **Empty output**: No custom logging configuration is active. Use Option A in Step 2.

> - **Non-empty output**: You already have a custom configuration. Use Option B in Step 2 to avoid replacing it.

Reviewer: These bullets interpret the output in terms of options that don't exist yet at this point in the doc. Consider moving them to the top of Step 2 (before the Option A/B headers) as context for the choice, and removing them from Step 1. Step 1's scope is just running the command; Step 2 is where the options are presented and where this guidance is actually actionable.

> **Note**: If `logging_config_class` points to a module that cannot be imported, Airflow falls back silently to the default configuration with no error. If you see no structured attributes in Datadog after setup, verify the module is importable from the worker environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If `logging_config_class` points to a module that cannot be imported, Airflow falls back silently to the default configuration with no error. If you see no structured attributes in Datadog after setup, verify the module is importable from the worker environment.
```

> **Note**: If `logging_config_class` points to a module that cannot be imported, Airflow falls back silently to the default configuration with no error. If you see no structured attributes in Datadog after setup, verify the module is importable from the worker environment.

Reviewer: "Verify the module is importable from the worker environment" tells users what to check but not how. Consider adding a concrete command, such as running `python -c 'import dd_airflow_log_context'` inside the worker container or environment.

### Step 2: Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py`

> Place this file somewhere importable in your Airflow environment — for example, alongside `airflow_local_settings.py`, or in any Python package installed in your Airflow image. On Astronomer (Astro), add it to your Astro project root so it is baked into the Docker image. On Google Cloud Composer, place it in the `plugins/` folder in your Composer GCS bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place this file in a location that Airflow can import:
- **General**: Place it alongside `airflow_local_settings.py` or in any Python package installed in your Airflow image.
- **Astronomer (Astro)**: Add it to your Astro project root. It is built into the Docker image during the build process.
- **Google Cloud Composer**: Place it in the `plugins/` folder in your Composer GCS bucket.
```

    def set_context(self, ti) -> None:
        _TASK_CTX.set({
            "dagRun": {
                "dag_id": ti.dag_id,
                "run_id": ti.run_id,
            },
            "task": {
                "task_id":    ti.task_id,
                "attempt_id": ti.try_number,
            },
        })

# Record factory
_old_factory = logging.getLogRecordFactory()

def _dd_record_factory(*args, **kwargs):
    record = _old_factory(*args, **kwargs)
    ctx = _TASK_CTX.get()
    if ctx:
        record.__dict__["airflow"] = ctx
    return record

logging.setLogRecordFactory(_dd_record_factory)

# LOGGING_CONFIG
# Used by Option A (logging_config_class). Safely ignored when imported through Option B.

LOGGING_CONFIG = deepcopy(DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG)

LOGGING_CONFIG["handlers"]["dd_context"] = {
    "class": "dd_airflow_log_context._DatadogContextHandler",
    "level": "DEBUG",
}

_task_logger = LOGGING_CONFIG.setdefault("loggers", {}).setdefault(
    "airflow.task", {"handlers": ["task"], "propagate": False}
)
_task_logger.setdefault("handlers", []).append("dd_context")
```

### Step 3: Configure Airflow to load the module

> **Option A** — `airflow.cfg` or environment variable (preferred when no existing custom configuration exists)

Reviewer: The `**Option A** —` and `**Option B** —` pattern (repeated at lines 118, 140, 240, and 250) uses em dashes as separators, which the style guide discourages. Consider adding a lead-in sentence before the first option (for example, "Choose one of the following options:") and using a colon instead of an em dash: `**Option A**: \`airflow.cfg\` or environment variable`.

Set the following in `airflow.cfg`:

```ini
[logging]
logging_config_class = dd_airflow_log_context.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

> Or as an environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, set it as an environment variable:
```

```shell
AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS=dd_airflow_log_context.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

> For Kubernetes deployments:
> - Bake `dd_airflow_log_context.py` into your Airflow Docker image, or mount it with a ConfigMap.
> - The mount path must be on `PYTHONPATH` inside the container.
> 
>   **Note**: Kubernetes environment variable values do not expand shell references. Setting `value: /opt/airflow/dd_addons:$PYTHONPATH` passes the literal string `$PYTHONPATH`. Set the full explicit path instead.
> - Apply the environment variable to worker pods. Adding it to scheduler and triggerer pods is harmless and recommended for consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Kubernetes deployments:
- Include `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in your Airflow Docker image, or mount it with a ConfigMap.
- Ensure the mount path is on `PYTHONPATH` inside the container.

  **Note:** Kubernetes environment variable values do not expand shell references. Setting `value: /opt/airflow/dd_addons:$PYTHONPATH` passes the literal string `$PYTHONPATH`. Set the full explicit path instead.
- Apply the environment variable to worker pods. Adding it to scheduler and triggerer pods is harmless and recommended for consistency.
```

def _dd_record_factory(*args, **kwargs):
    record = _old_factory(*args, **kwargs)
    dag_id = os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_DAG_ID")
    if dag_id:
        try:
            attempt = int(os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TRY_NUMBER", "1"))
        except ValueError:
            attempt = 1
        record.__dict__["airflow"] = {
            "dagRun": {
                "dag_id": dag_id,
                "run_id": os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_RUN_ID"),
            },
            "task": {
                "task_id":    os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TASK_ID"),
                "attempt_id": attempt,
            },
        }
    return record

logging.setLogRecordFactory(_dd_record_factory)

# LOGGING_CONFIG
# Required by Option A wiring. No handler changes needed for Airflow 3.x.
LOGGING_CONFIG = deepcopy(DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG)
```

### Step 2: Configure Airflow to load the module

The file must be imported inside the task subprocess before user code runs.

**Option A** — `logging_config_class`

```shell
AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS=dd_airflow_log_context.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

Apply to worker pods. The same `PYTHONPATH` and Kubernetes notes from the Airflow 2.x section apply.

> **Note**: Whether Airflow 3.x's task subprocess honors `logging_config_class` depends on your deployment. Run the verification step before relying on this option. If the factory is not active, use Option B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Whether Airflow 3.x's task subprocess honors `logging_config_class` depends on your deployment. Run the verification step before relying on this option. If the factory is not active, use Option B.
```

---
title: Inject Airflow Task Context into Logs
description: "Inject DAG and task context attributes into Airflow task logs as structured facets in Datadog."
further_reading:
  - link: '/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/airflow/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Enable Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring for Apache Airflow'
  - link: '/data_jobs'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring'
---

## Overview

> This page describes how to inject Airflow task context attributes into every log record emitted during task execution, including logs from custom Python loggers, without modifying your DAGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inject Airflow task context attributes into every log record emitted during task execution, including logs from custom Python loggers, without modifying your DAGs.
```

> After completing the steps on this page, the following attributes appear as structured facets in Datadog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the steps on this page, the following attributes appear as structured facets in Datadog:
```

| Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
| `@airflow.dagRun.dag_id` | DAG identifier |
| `@airflow.dagRun.run_id` | DAG run identifier |
| `@airflow.task.task_id` | Task identifier |
| `@airflow.task.attempt_id` | Attempt number (1-indexed, incremented on retry) |

Datadog automatically flattens nested JSON into dot-notation facets. No log pipeline configuration is required.

The injection mechanism differs between Airflow versions. Choose the tab that matches your deployment.

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up log context injection
```

Generic heading; a high-information heading is a better retrieval anchor for AI and clearer for scanning.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Airflow 2.x" %}}

Airflow 2.x calls `set_context(ti)` in the same worker process before each task runs. The implementation captures that context with a `ContextVar` and injects it into every log record through a process-wide log record factory.

> ### Step 1: Verify your current logging configuration

Reviewer: **Structural suggestion (Step 1 / Step 2):** Consider swapping Step 1 and Step 2. Creating the file doesn't depend on the config check, and the config check's output is only consumed when you configure loading, so checking config right before that step flows better. New order: 1) Create the file, 2) Check current logging config, 3) Configure loading.

Also, close the loop on this step by interpreting the command output here, so the reader knows what the result means before reaching Step 3. I.e., the flow would be:

```
### Step 1: Create dd_airflow_log_context.py
...
### Step 2: Verify your current logging configuration

Run the following command:
<command>

If the command finishes with no output, then no custom logging configuration is active. If the command finishes with non-empty output, you already have a custom logging configuration.

### Step 3: Configure Airflow to load the module
...
```

Run the following command:

```shell
airflow config get-value logging logging_config_class
```

**Note:** If `logging_config_class` points to a module that cannot be imported, Airflow falls back silently to the default configuration with no error. If you see no structured attributes in Datadog after setup, verify the module is importable from the worker environment.

### Step 2: Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py`

> Place this file in a location that Airflow can import:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in a location that Airflow can import:
```

"this file" is an ambiguous reference; name the file.

- **Google Cloud Composer**: Place it in the `plugins/` folder in your Composer GCS bucket.

```python
from __future__ import annotations

import contextvars
import logging
from copy import deepcopy

from airflow.config_templates.airflow_local_settings import DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG

# Context capture
_TASK_CTX: contextvars.ContextVar[dict | None] = contextvars.ContextVar(
    "_dd_task_ctx", default=None
)

class _DatadogContextHandler(logging.NullHandler):
    """Receives Airflow's set_context(ti) callback. Stores context; emits nothing."""

    def set_context(self, ti) -> None:
        _TASK_CTX.set({
            "dagRun": {
                "dag_id": ti.dag_id,
                "run_id": ti.run_id,
            },
            "task": {
                "task_id":    ti.task_id,
                "attempt_id": ti.try_number,
            },
        })

# Record factory
_old_factory = logging.getLogRecordFactory()

def _dd_record_factory(*args, **kwargs):
    record = _old_factory(*args, **kwargs)
    ctx = _TASK_CTX.get()
    if ctx:
        record.__dict__["airflow"] = ctx
    return record

logging.setLogRecordFactory(_dd_record_factory)

# LOGGING_CONFIG

> # Used by Option A (logging_config_class). Safely ignored when imported through Option B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Used by the logging_config_class approach. Safely ignored when imported through airflow_local_settings.py.
```

If the option headers below are renamed to be self-describing, drop the "Option A/B" references here so the code and prose don't drift.

LOGGING_CONFIG = deepcopy(DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG)

LOGGING_CONFIG["handlers"]["dd_context"] = {
    "class": "dd_airflow_log_context._DatadogContextHandler",
    "level": "DEBUG",
}

_task_logger = LOGGING_CONFIG.setdefault("loggers", {}).setdefault(
    "airflow.task", {"handlers": ["task"], "propagate": False}
)
_task_logger.setdefault("handlers", []).append("dd_context")
```

### Step 3: Configure Airflow to load the module

> Choose one of the following options based on your Step 1 output:

Reviewer: I renamed the options so I think we can go with something like "Choose one of the following approaches, depending on whether you have an existing custom logging configuration:"

- **Empty output**: No custom logging configuration is active. Use Option A.

> - **Non-empty output**: You already have a custom configuration. Use Option B to avoid replacing it.

Reviewer: Remove these if you go with the structure proposed in [this comment](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/37054/changes#r3383202248)

```suggestion
```

> **Option A**: `airflow.cfg` or environment variable (preferred when no existing custom configuration exists)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**No existing custom configuration**
```

Descriptive headers read better and make stronger retrieval anchors than "Option A." (See the related comment about updating the `LOGGING_CONFIG` code comment that references the option letters.)

Set the following in `airflow.cfg`:

```ini
[logging]
logging_config_class = dd_airflow_log_context.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

Alternatively, set it as an environment variable:

```shell
AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS=dd_airflow_log_context.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

For Kubernetes deployments:
- Include `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in your Airflow Docker image, or mount it with a ConfigMap.

> - Ensure the mount path is on `PYTHONPATH` inside the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify the mount path is on `PYTHONPATH` inside the container.
```

  **Note:** Kubernetes environment variable values do not expand shell references. Setting `value: /opt/airflow/dd_addons:$PYTHONPATH` passes the literal string `$PYTHONPATH`. Set the full explicit path instead.
- Apply the environment variable to worker pods. Adding it to scheduler and triggerer pods is harmless and recommended for consistency.

> **Option B**: existing `airflow_local_settings.py` (use when you already have a custom `LOGGING_CONFIG`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Existing custom configuration**
```

Append the following to the bottom of your existing `airflow_local_settings.py`:

```python
import dd_airflow_log_context  # installs setLogRecordFactory and exposes handler class

LOGGING_CONFIG["handlers"]["dd_context"] = {
    "class": "dd_airflow_log_context._DatadogContextHandler",
    "level": "DEBUG",
}
_task_logger = LOGGING_CONFIG.setdefault("loggers", {}).setdefault(
    "airflow.task", {"handlers": ["task"], "propagate": False}
)
_task_logger.setdefault("handlers", []).append("dd_context")
```

### Step 4: Verify

Add the following to a `PythonOperator` in a test DAG:

```python
import logging
logging.getLogger("dd_probe").info("dd-context-probe")
```

Then query in Datadog:

```
@airflow.dagRun.dag_id:* "dd-context-probe"
```

- If the log line appears with `@airflow.dagRun.dag_id` and `@airflow.task.task_id` facets, the integration is working.
- If the log line appears without those facets, the file loaded but `set_context` was not called. Confirm the handler is in the `airflow.task` logger chain.
- If the log line does not appear at all, the file did not load. Check `PYTHONPATH` and `logging_config_class`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Airflow 3.x" %}}

> Airflow 3.x runs tasks in a fully isolated subprocess (Task Execution Interface, AIP-72). The `set_context()` callback is invoked in the parent worker process before the subprocess spawns — the `ContextVar` is never populated inside the subprocess where task logs are produced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow 3.x runs tasks in a fully isolated subprocess (Task Execution Interface, AIP-72). The `set_context()` callback is invoked in the parent worker process before the subprocess spawns. As a result, the `ContextVar` is never populated inside the subprocess where task logs are produced.
```

Spitting the em dash into two sentences.

> Airflow 3.x runs tasks in a fully isolated subprocess (Task Execution Interface, AIP-72). The `set_context()` callback is invoked in the parent worker process before the subprocess spawns — the `ContextVar` is never populated inside the subprocess where task logs are produced.

Reviewer: Can we add a link for "Task Execution Interface, AIP-72" ?

> The solution reads context from environment variables that Airflow exports into the task subprocess. No handler, no `ContextVar`, and no `LOGGING_CONFIG` mutation are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution reads context from environment variables that Airflow exports into the task subprocess. This approach requires no handler, `ContextVar`, or `LOGGING_CONFIG` mutation.

Airflow exports the following environment variables into the task subprocess. Each maps to a Datadog attribute:
```

Active recast (also fixes subject-verb agreement) plus a colon lead-in that names what the table shows.

| Environment variable | Attribute |
|---|---|
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_DAG_ID` | `dagRun.dag_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_RUN_ID` | `dagRun.run_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_TASK_ID` | `task.task_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_TRY_NUMBER` | `task.attempt_id` |

### Step 1: Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py`

> Place this file somewhere importable in your Airflow environment. On Astronomer (Astro), add it to your Astro project root so it is baked into the Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` somewhere importable in your Airflow environment. On Astronomer (Astro), add it to your Astro project root so it is baked into the Docker image. Add the following code to the file:
```

Name the file (mirrors the 2.x tab) and introduce the code block.

```python
from __future__ import annotations

import logging
import os
from copy import deepcopy

from airflow.config_templates.airflow_local_settings import DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG

# Record factory
_old_factory = logging.getLogRecordFactory()

def _dd_record_factory(*args, **kwargs):
    record = _old_factory(*args, **kwargs)
    dag_id = os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_DAG_ID")
    if dag_id:
        try:
            attempt = int(os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TRY_NUMBER", "1"))
        except ValueError:
            attempt = 1
        record.__dict__["airflow"] = {
            "dagRun": {
                "dag_id": dag_id,
                "run_id": os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_RUN_ID"),
            },
            "task": {
                "task_id":    os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TASK_ID"),
                "attempt_id": attempt,
            },
        }
    return record

logging.setLogRecordFactory(_dd_record_factory)

# LOGGING_CONFIG

> # Required by Option A wiring. No handler changes needed for Airflow 3.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Required by the logging_config_class approach. No handler changes needed for Airflow 3.x.
```

LOGGING_CONFIG = deepcopy(DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG)
```

> ### Step 2: Configure Airflow to load the module

Reviewer: **Restructure suggestion (3.x Step 2).** A few coupled changes here:

- Lead with the decision so readers choose correctly up front, instead of discovering the caveat in a Note after Option A.
- Present `sitecustomize.py` **first** (it's the most reliable method), `logging_config_class` second.
- Rename the options to be self-describing: **Import with `sitecustomize.py` (recommended)** and **Import with `logging_config_class`**.
- Drop the passive "The file must be imported..."; fold it into the lead-in.
- Add an explanatory lead-in to `logging_config_class` (it currently jumps straight to an env var with no statement of what it does).
- **Replace the cross-tab reference** "the same `PYTHONPATH` and Kubernetes notes from the Airflow 2.x section apply" by duplicating those notes here — a reader in this tab can't see the 2.x tab. *(Please confirm the Kubernetes/`PYTHONPATH` notes apply verbatim to 3.x.)*
- Order the `sitecustomize.py` block as: snippet → Astro placement → "Python runs..." explanation (actions together, rationale after).

Roughly:

> To import the file inside the task subprocess before user code runs, choose one of the following options. `sitecustomize.py` is the most reliable method across deployments. Use `logging_config_class` only if your deployment honors it; if the factory is not active after the verification step, switch to `sitecustomize.py`.
>
> **Import with `sitecustomize.py` (recommended)**
>
> Add the import to a `sitecustomize.py` on your image's `PYTHONPATH`. On Astronomer (Astro), add both `dd_airflow_log_context.py` and `sitecustomize.py` to your Astro project root.
>
> Python runs `sitecustomize.py` at interpreter startup, so the factory is installed in every subprocess Airflow spawns, regardless of how the task runner invokes the interpreter.
>
> **Import with `logging_config_class`**
>
> Set `logging_config_class` so Airflow loads your module's `LOGGING_CONFIG`, which installs the record factory. (Duplicate the Kubernetes/`PYTHONPATH` notes from the 2.x tab here.)

**Wrinkle:** if you rename/reorder the options, update the Verify step below ("Switch to Option B (`sitecustomize.py`)") to match the new option name.

---

> title: Inject Airflow Task Context into Logs

Reviewer: Do you want this new page to show up in the left-hand nav, or to remain hidden? If the former, you'll need to update `config/_default/menus/main.en.yaml`. I can help with that -- let me know!

Author: Yes I'm down to have it in the left hand nav ! I gave it a try with https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/37054/commits/4e9eaff9b76caf66a84e239b592ddd01d5b21a1c

description: "Inject DAG and task context attributes into Airflow task logs as structured facets in Datadog."
further_reading:
  - link: '/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/airflow/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Enable Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring for Apache Airflow'
  - link: '/data_jobs'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Data Observability: Jobs Monitoring'
---

## Overview

> Inject Airflow task context attributes into every log record emitted during task execution, including logs from custom Python loggers, without modifying your DAGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to inject Airflow task context attributes into every log record emitted during task execution, including logs from custom Python loggers, without modifying your DAGs.
```

After you complete the steps on this page, the following attributes appear as structured facets in Datadog:

| Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
| `@airflow.dagRun.dag_id` | DAG identifier |
| `@airflow.dagRun.run_id` | DAG run identifier |
| `@airflow.task.task_id` | Task identifier |
| `@airflow.task.attempt_id` | Attempt number (1-indexed, incremented on retry) |

Datadog automatically flattens nested JSON into dot-notation facets. No log pipeline configuration is required.

The injection mechanism differs between Airflow versions. Choose the tab that matches your deployment.

## Set up log context injection

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Airflow 2.x" %}}

> Airflow 2.x calls `set_context(ti)` in the same worker process before each task runs. The implementation captures that context with a `ContextVar` and injects it into every log record through a process-wide log record factory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.x calls `set_context(ti)` in the same worker process before each task runs. The following implementation captures that context with a `ContextVar` and injects it into every log record through a process-wide log record factory.
```

### Step 1: Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py`

> Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in a location that Airflow can import:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in a directory on your `PYTHONPATH` so Airflow can import it:
```

- If the log line appears without those facets, the file loaded but `set_context` was not called. Confirm the handler is in the `airflow.task` logger chain.
- If the log line does not appear at all, the file did not load. Check `PYTHONPATH` and `logging_config_class`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Airflow 3.x" %}}

Airflow 3.x runs tasks in a fully isolated subprocess ([Task Execution Interface, AIP-72][TEI]). The `set_context()` callback is invoked in the parent worker process before the subprocess spawns. As a result, the `ContextVar` is never populated inside the subprocess where task logs are produced.

The solution reads context from environment variables that Airflow exports into the task subprocess. This approach requires no handler, `ContextVar`, or `LOGGING_CONFIG` mutation.

Airflow exports the following environment variables into the task subprocess. Each maps to a Datadog attribute:

| Environment variable | Attribute |
|---|---|
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_DAG_ID` | `dagRun.dag_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_RUN_ID` | `dagRun.run_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_TASK_ID` | `task.task_id` |
| `AIRFLOW_CTX_TRY_NUMBER` | `task.attempt_id` |

### Step 1: Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py`

> Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` somewhere importable in your Airflow environment. Add the following code to the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `dd_airflow_log_context.py` in a directory on your `PYTHONPATH` so Airflow can import it. Add the following code to the file:
```

```python
from __future__ import annotations

import logging
import os
from copy import deepcopy

from airflow.config_templates.airflow_local_settings import DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG

# Record factory
_old_factory = logging.getLogRecordFactory()

def _dd_record_factory(*args, **kwargs):
    record = _old_factory(*args, **kwargs)
    dag_id = os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_DAG_ID")
    if dag_id:
        try:
            attempt = int(os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TRY_NUMBER", "1"))
        except ValueError:
            attempt = 1
        record.__dict__["airflow"] = {
            "dagRun": {
                "dag_id": dag_id,
                "run_id": os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_RUN_ID"),
            },
            "task": {
                "task_id":    os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_TASK_ID"),
                "attempt_id": attempt,
            },
        }
    return record

logging.setLogRecordFactory(_dd_record_factory)

# LOGGING_CONFIG
# Required by the logging_config_class approach. No handler changes needed for Airflow 3.x.
LOGGING_CONFIG = deepcopy(DEFAULT_LOGGING_CONFIG)
```

### Step 2: Configure Airflow to load the module

> To import the file inside the task subprocess before user code runs, choose one of the following options. `sitecustomize.py` is the most reliable method across deployments. Use `logging_config_class` only if your deployment honors it; if the factory is not active after the verification step, switch to `sitecustomize.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import the file inside the task subprocess before user code runs, choose one of the following options: 

<div class="alert alert-info"><code>sitecustomize.py</code> is the most reliable method across deployments. Use <code>logging_config_class</code> only if your deployment honors it; if the factory is not active after the verification step, switch to <code>sitecustomize.py</code>.</div>
```

[TEI]: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRFLOW/AIP-72+Task+Execution+Interface+aka+Task+SDK

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Limitations

- **Subprocess-spawning operators**: `setLogRecordFactory` affects only the current Python process. Log records from separate subprocesses or pods (such as `KubernetesPodOperator` or `BashOperator` spawning child processes) do not carry task context.
- **Airflow 3.x deferred tasks**: Deferred operators resume in the triggerer process, which does not have `AIRFLOW_CTX_*` environment variables set. Logs during the deferred phase carry no task context.
- **Long-running background threads (Airflow 2.x)**: Context is set once per task at task start. If a task spawns background threads that outlive the task, those threads may log with the next task's context.
- **Mapped tasks (Airflow 3.x)**: `AIRFLOW_CTX_MAP_INDEX` is also exported. To surface the map index in Datadog, add `"map_index": os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_MAP_INDEX")` under `task` in the record factory.

## Rollback

To disable:
- **`logging_config_class` approach**: Unset `AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS` and restart the affected pods.

> - **`airflow_local_settings.py` or `sitecustomize.py` approach**: Remove the `import dd_airflow_log_context` line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logging_config_class` approach: 
   Unset `AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS` and restart the affected pods.
- `airflow_local_settings.py` or `sitecustomize.py` approach: 
   Remove the `import dd_airflow_log_context` line.
```

- If `factory` is something else, the file did not load in the subprocess. Switch to `sitecustomize.py`.

[TEI]: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRFLOW/AIP-72+Task+Execution+Interface+aka+Task+SDK

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Limitations

- **Subprocess-spawning operators**: `setLogRecordFactory` affects only the current Python process. Log records from separate subprocesses or pods (such as `KubernetesPodOperator` or `BashOperator` spawning child processes) do not carry task context.
- **Airflow 3.x deferred tasks**: Deferred operators resume in the triggerer process, which does not have `AIRFLOW_CTX_*` environment variables set. Logs during the deferred phase carry no task context.
- **Long-running background threads (Airflow 2.x)**: Context is set once per task at task start. If a task spawns background threads that outlive the task, those threads may log with the next task's context.
- **Mapped tasks (Airflow 3.x)**: `AIRFLOW_CTX_MAP_INDEX` is also exported. To surface the map index in Datadog, add `"map_index": os.environ.get("AIRFLOW_CTX_MAP_INDEX")` under `task` in the record factory.

> ## Rollback
> 
> To disable:
> - `logging_config_class` approach: 
>    Unset `AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS` and restart the affected pods.
> - `airflow_local_settings.py` or `sitecustomize.py` approach: 
>    Remove the `import dd_airflow_log_context` line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logging_config_class` approach: 

   Unset `AIRFLOW__LOGGING__LOGGING_CONFIG_CLASS` and restart the affected pods.
   
- `airflow_local_settings.py` or `sitecustomize.py` approach: 

   Remove the `import dd_airflow_log_context` line.
```
